next topic we have is combining and splitting files.
You could combine multiple files into one,
and you could combine one file so you could split one file into multiple files,
like just an example right here.
And you cat it for or three files you could up.
Put the cat output off all those files into 1/4 file,
which is you call it Filed four.
So what will happen is whatever is inside,
whatever the contents off those files 123 there will be combined.
And they were pushed out two word file for So that's how you combine it.
So how do you split it,
and why do we need to split it?
Okay,
well,
there are certain times when you do have big,
huge files and you do need toe either compress it.
If the compressing is not an option than what you could do is you could split it,
meaning your chop that file into different files.
And the reason you do that is because sometimes you have to send files across one computer
to another or to 1/3 party winder,
or,
if it's a log file,
that they have to check that the check and it's huge.
It's huge.
So the only way to do and your only friend is out there is the split.
So you split it,
chop it,
whichever the number of files that you want to do and boom,
you will have it.
So let's look at this file that we have,
Um and we will create some files.
And in this example,
you see,
I have a file and ah,
I'm splitting the file in 300 lines per file and putting it into ah,
file called child file.
Let's look at our Lennox machine and I will explain it to you much better while they're
doing it through the command line.
Okay,
this is our legs terminal,
which you guys are very familiar with.
Okay,
we are in our home directory.
Just confirmed that,
so we don't have to put all the practice files or the stuffs that are not belong to other
directories.
So we know we are in the right directory now.
I want you to create a file that's called it,
um,
countries are,
you know,
continents.
That's called country.
That's fine.
The file is created,
and I am using the I.
So the first line I'm gonna create is England.
This is just a country.
2nd 1 is U S C.
3rd 1 is Canada and so on.
But if you don't know how to use the I at this point you will be learning the I later on.
But if you don't know how to use V I at this point so what you could do is echo.
Let's remove the country's file,
then do echo.
But USA into countries cat it and you will see Yes,
it's there.
Next one,
you put an echo u K and U I'll put but to redirects to countries,
make sure it's there.
Yes,
we have two countries.
We will keep doing that until we have some text in it.
So u k u a e and um can and ah and for us on.
And so it's land.
I will stop here.
Japan.
So just do that.
Confirmed that you have all those contents in there.
So right now,
how maney lines we have will do.
We have seven,
So I'm gonna make split them into split and just check the option is minus spell.
Endless split two lines each off countries and I'm gonna put them in a file called Separate
.
Just sip and I'm gonna hit.
Enter now let's see what we have.
So you see,
automatically Lennox knows that once I'm gonna create file Sepp,
Of course,
I requested to create two in each file.
It has automatically appended with names like a a B a c a d.
So let's look at what's in our A file.
We have USA and UK BB.
Sorry,
A B you a in Canada a C.
France since is the land and the last one is Japan.
Okay,
so every file has two entries wide.
We don't have two entries in the last file.
Think about it.
I'm gonna give you a couple of seconds,
Okay?
I hope you guessed it right,
because we do not have.
If you go to countries fall,
we do not have the exact numbers meaning we don't have eight lines.
So that's why it took the first to put it in one first to second file first to third file.
And since we didn't have anyone,
Japan was the only one left alone.
So our Japan and that's why it went just into one line to that file.
That's how combining file and splitting files work.
Um,
this is a helpful tool.
Then you have to split large,
long,
huge files and you have to transfer from one computer to another.